The sign for "abuse" is made by extending the right B hand, palm down, and curving it under the downturned palm of the left extended B hand to simulate entrance.
Fingers of palm-up right bent, extended, and point leftward as they rest on rightward-pointing fingers of palm-up left bent, extended, and. The arms are simultaneously moved from side to side as if rocking a baby in one's arms.
Vertical right 'b' and palm facing left and side of forefinger touching left cheek is moved to the corresponding position on the right cheek.
Thumbs of hands palms facing each other are tapped on the shoulders.
The sign for "A" (or "extended A") hand, palm facing the body, is rubbed on the chest with a circular motion that appears clockwise to onlookers. A look of sympathy accompanies this.
The tip of the middle finger of the right hand, bent at the middle finger joint, is 5 inches from the head and the palm is facing downward. It traces a circle at the top of the head.
Right bent B (or 'B') hand fingers pointing left and palm facing body is rotated continuously forward around left bent B (or 'B') hand whose fingers point right and palm faces the body. Same.
The sign for address in American Sign Language is made by place the fingertips of one hand against the open palm of the other hand, then moving the fingertips forward slightly. This sign can also be used to mean a location or place of residence. For example, "She put her new address on the envelope."
Fingertips of the right hand flat and palm down are used to touch the top of the horizontal left hand, whose palm faces the body. The movement is repeated twice.
sign can start at the chest and move outward. This sign can mean "excellent" or "extraordinary" depending on the context in which it is used.
The sign for admonish may be made with two hands beginning with one at either side of the chest.
Horizontal left 'extended A' is held in a fixed position with palm facing right. Right 'extended A' and palm facing down is twisted so that the palm faces left as it is brought forward to make contact with the left hand just below the thumb. See first version at.
Horizontal 'C' hands are held apart with palms facing each other. The hands are then simultaneously raised to indicate the height of the pail.
Vertical right 'A' hand palm forward is held at shoulder level and appears to knock slightly while moving a little to the right as it fingerspells "AA."
Horizontal extended hands, palms facing the body, are held slightly apart and rubbed up and down simultaneously against the chest.
The sign for "discount" involves the right hand, palm facing forward, twisting at the wrist as it is moved smartly to the left, taking on a "t" shape with the palm facing the body. This is a common sign used in American Sign Language.
Vertical right 'one' and palm facing the body is moved in a small counterclockwise circle.
Fingertips of spread fingers are placed on either side of face, palms facing each other, then curved downward along jawlines to outline shape of beard.
Head tilts slightly to the right, supported by the right 'extended b' hand which is held against the right side of the face.
clawed hands palms toward body fingertips touching chest are swept vigorously upward/outward. Facial expression must clearly convey anger. (the
The sign for "right" involves extending the arm and palm facing the body, then twisting the wrist so that the palm faces forward or downward.
Horizontal bent and extended B hands, palms facing chest and knuckles almost touching each other, are drawn apart.
Left extended hand is held in a fixed position with palm down and fingers pointing rightward. The forefinger of the right hand is protruded upward between the forefinger and midfinger of the left hand. Then the right hand is pulled down firmly.
Thumbs and forefingers of both modified G (or clawed L) hands (depending on width of belt) are held in front of waist palms toward body and moved together to simulate the fastening of a belt buckle.
Flat O hands are held with fingertips touching each other and palms facing. Fingertips still touching are moved toward body to form the point of a 'V' created as backs of fingers of each hand are brought closer together and palms face body.
A hands are placed on the left side of the chest, palms facing the body with the right hand above the left. Then they are simultaneously moved forward and back to tap twice against the body.
The right 'A-index hand is held at an angle with palm facing partially upward and partially toward the body. The forearm is then brought smartly downward toward the body with the hand taking on a closed A-index shape as the thumb and forefinger are retracted. The motion is repeated. (Benefits is frequently fingerspelled.)
A hands palms facing are held close to one another and moved alternately back and forth. This is a wrist movement. Agent ending (see p liv) may follow. (pay) attention
Horizontal right 'A' is held with palm toward the left shoulder. The wrist then rotates to turn the hand palm down as it moves backward a short distance so that the thumb pokes into the shoulder.
The right modified G hand is held at chin, palm facing forward while thumb and forefinger are opened and closed at least twice to simulate the movement of a bird's beak.
The sign for "bent" in American Sign Language is produced by bending the tip of the forefinger of the right hand, with the palm facing down, and drawing it across the forehead from left to right. As this motion is made, the wrist turns so that the forefinger, which initially points to the left, ends up pointing backwards.
Bent extended hands are held apart just in front of the upper chest with palms down and fingers pointing forward but toward each other slightly. The hands are then turned inward from the wrists so that the fingertips touch the chest in the chest. Alternatively, this.
Bent hands are held palms down with the right hand slightly above left, fingers of left hand point right while fingers of right hand point left. The hands are then simultaneously given quarter-turn twists forward and back from the wrists. (For vertical blinds see Verticals.)
Horizontal 'K' or 'V' hands are held right above left with extended fingers pointing forward, the left palm facing rightward and the right palm facing leftward. The hands are brought together to strike each other a couple of times. Facial expression is important.
Bent hands with palms up and fingers fluttering are alternately circled upward and forward.
The hands are held with wrists crossed and palms down, the right hand nearest the body. Then both hands are thrust upward forcefully so that the palms face each other.
The 'S' or 'clawed V' hands with palms facing chest are crossed at the wrists with the right hand nearest the body. The back of the right wrist is tapped twice against the left wrist. (Bone is frequently fingerspelled.)
Left arm is folded in front of chest as right 'S' hand is lowered palm down onto left arm near the elbow. Then left 'S' hand is similarly placed on right arm near the elbow. Finally, the arms are both raised simultaneously so that the 'S' hands become upright with palms facing. (This
Vertical right flat F-hand palm facing left is held near the right corner of the mouth and is drawn backward/rightward several times.
The right (or crooked one) hand is held in a horizontal position with palm facing upward but angled slightly toward the body. The back of the forefinger is used to brush lightly backward several times in the crook of the bent elbow of the left arm which is held loosely near the left side of the body.
A hands palms down are held slightly apart and are then firmly pushed a very short distance downward. (Chance is frequently fingerspelled.)
The 'crooked 5' hand is held palm-up with fingers pointing forward while the 'crooked 5' hand is held apart and slightly higher with palm down and fingers pointing forward. The arms are then simultaneously moved upward/rightward as the hands are purposefully twisted rightward from the wrists so that the left palm faces right and the right palm faces left.
Extended 8 hands are held with palms facing down, the left above the right, the fingers of the left hand pointing right and those of the right hand pointing left. The right hand is moved up and down slightly. 60 bounce - box bounce.
Extended hands, palms facing downward, are placed at either side of the waist and are alternately moved away from the body and then toward the body so that the thumbs jab the.
Fingers of crooked hands palms down interlock slightly and then drop down so that backs of fingers are almost touching. breakfast — bridge breakfast.
Horizontal '5' hands are held right above left with palms facing the chest and are moved forward and back.
Extended8 hands are held parallel with palms up in front of the left side of the body. Then they are simultaneously moved in a slight arc to the right.
"ATLANTIC" thumbtip of right horizontal 'modified 5' and palm facing left is held at the tip of the nose. The right hand is then lowered as the wrist rotates to turn the palm downward and the thumb strikes downward against the thumb of the left horizontal modified 5 hand of which the palm faces right. Facial expression is important. Sign 2 [ONTARIO] left forearm is bent so that it is held in front of the chest while the right 'crooked l' and palm facing backward is tapped against the left elbow. This
The sign is produced by moving the tip of the right index finger across the lips from one side to the other. This movement is accompanied by a lip pattern such as that used to produce a 'sh' sound.
PACIFIC: Tip of forefinger of right 'crooked one' and palm facing the body is tapped against the chin several times. Facial expression is important.
The sign for "che" in American Sign Language is made by placing the tip of the index finger against the side of the forehead. It is accompanied by an appropriate facial expression and a lip pattern such as that used to produce an 'sh' sound.
Heel of right hand is spread extended C and is placed on heel of left spread extended hand and the hands are twisted back and forth a few times in opposite directions.
Vertical right one hand is held with the tip of the forefinger just in front of the right ear. The hand is then lowered so that the tip of the forefinger touches the right side of the mouth. Next, horizontal left 'I' hand is held with palm facing the chest at a rightward angle while horizontal right 'I' hand is held just above it with palm facing the chest at a leftward angle. The hands are then tapped together a couple of times. (ASL concept - Deaf School)
The left extended 8 hand is held in a fixed position with the palm facing upward but slanted toward the body slightly while the fingers point rightward/forward. The edge of the right extended 8 hand, palm facing left and fingers pointing forward, is used to simulate a chopping motion on the left palm.
The sign for "sister" is made by forming an "L" with your right hand, with the back of the hand facing forward/downward and the extended fingers pointing forward. This handshape is then tapped against the right side of the chin twice.
Clawed: Two hands with palms facing down are held apart in front of the chest, with one hand held higher than the other. The hands are then circled forward in an alternating motion.
The left 'extended B' hand is held in a fixed position with palm up and fingers pointing forward/rightward. The vertical right 'one' hand is held above/behind the left hand with palm facing forward/leftward. The head falls forward as the right forearm then drops forward/downward so that the right hand comes to rest palm-down in the palm of the left hand. (In this context, the right 'one' hand represents a person who is originally standing and then falls over.
Signs for "dog" and "cat" exhibit the animal's physical appearance like the wagging of a tail or the whiskers twitching for a dog or cat, respectively. The signs are made on the chin with the fingers of one hand. For "dog," the index finger of the right hand is used with the tip of the finger tapping the chin once. For "cat," the fingers are more stationary under the chin. (The cat's whiskers are indicated with the fingers of both hands held open next to each other and slightly movinRETURNinging OFFER &-and away from each other.) Two different signs are used for "horse," depending on whether it is ridden or pulling a wagon. The "pulling a wagon" sign is directional and made horizontally in front of the body. The ridden horse sign is made halfway down the palm of the passive hand with the index finger of the active hand extending forwarui. The basic meaning of the sign for "picture" is outlined with the index fingers RESEMBLING a frame, indicating the edges of the picture. An important key to the meaning of signs is movement. For example, the sign for "rain" is shown with fingers fluttering downward like raindrops, and "snow" is shown with the fluttering fingers more horizontal.
Horizontal right 'S' hand palm facing leftward but angled toward the body is held on top of the horizontal left 'S' hand of which the palm faces right. The right hand then makes small circular counterclockwise motions as if grinding coffee beans.
The sign for "right" is made by forming the letter 'c' handshape with the right hand, which is held upright with the palm facing forward or leftward and is wobbled slightly.
The sign for "right" is made by spreading the extended C hand, palm facing towards the head, which is held at the right side of the head at an upright/forward angle. The hand is then moved backward/downward twice, as if combing the hair.
Thumbtip of vertical right 'extended c' and palm facing left is placed against the left shoulder. The hand is then moved in an arc to take up the same position at the right shoulder. Alternate
Vertical 'c' hands with the left palm facing right and the right palm facing left are moved back and forth simultaneously but in opposite directions in front of the neck/chin area. Same.
The hands with palms facing each other are held apart in front of the chest and are simultaneously lowered.
Vertical 'spread hands' are held apart with palms forward and are simultaneously circled outward in opposite directions, the right hand moving clockwise and the left hand moving counterclockwise. Same.
The sign for "right" is made by forming the letter 'U' with your dominant hand, palm facing left, held in a vertical position so that the side of the forefinger touches the middle of the forehead. Then, the hand is moved forward away from the head.
Vertical 5-hands, palms forward but facing slightly, are placed at either side of the head with thumbs on the forehead. The arms are then moved slightly so that the thumbs tap gently against the forehead.
The sign for "horizontal" moves the right hand extended "A" back and forth from left to right with the palm facing left, or forward and back with the palm facing the body.
Vertical right 'C' hand palm facing forward/leftward slides back and forth along the left forearm.
The sign for "comrade" is made by forming a fist with the thumb of the right hand extended and the palm facing left, held at the right side of the forehead. The forearm is moved very slightly back and forth a couple of times.
The sign for "right" in American Sign Language is made by forming an "A" handshape with the thumb pointed upward and the palm facing to the left. The thumb then touches the lips twice with the thumbnail. This movement can be alternated back and forth to represent the concept of "right."
Extended hands are held side by side with palms down and right thumb tip pressing against left thumbnail as the hands are moved purposefully forward.
The tip of the joined thumb and forefinger of the horizontal right 'f' and (or tip of the thumb of 'extended k' and) palm toward the face is held at the end of the nose. The wrist then twists to turn the hand palm downward. Motion may be repeated once or twice.
The sign for "left" is done by extending the left hand and holding it in a fixed position with the palm up and fingers pointing rightward or forward. The right hand, in a "b" handshape with the palm facing left, is held on the left palm with fingers pointing forward. The right hand then moves backward in a zigzag pattern across the palm of the left hand.
Spread hands are held right above left palms facing each other with fingertips touching. They are then moved apart and back together again to simulate the opening and closing of a crocodile's jaws.
The sign for "horizontal right 'X'" in American Sign Language is made by holding the right hand, palm down, in front of the mid-forehead and shaking it up and down from the wrist.
Horizontal right 'S' hand brushes downward at least twice against the left underarm as if applying a stick or roll-on deodorant. An 'X' handshape is held near the underarm to simulate the spraying on of deodorant. If the deodorant is for other than underarm use.
Light is signed by forming an extended B handshape, which is held with the palm facing down and the fingers pointing forward and downward. The forearm is then thrust downward and forward.
The sign "head" is made with two hands, one at either side of the forehead.
The sign 'extended K' with palm down and forefinger pointing forward is held above the left standard base hand. The hands move back and forth several times in opposite directions, with the right hand moving forward while the left hand moves backward, and the right midfinger flicking lightly during each movement.
The forefingers of both hands are crossed. The hands are then turned outward so that they become vertical with palms facing forward. Same
Fingertips of vertical right hand palm facing backwards are tapped against the mouth twice. DINOS.
The modified "5" hand is held under chin with palm down as the fingers flutter.
Hands are held slightly apart with palms down and are simultaneously moved up and down to simulate dipping an article into a dye-bath.
The sign for "right" is made by forming the letter 'A' with your dominant hand, palm facing backward, and thumping it against the forehead. Another variation of this sign is the sign for "ignorant."
Right extended, a hand is held in front of the mouth with palm facing left. The forearm is then tipped firmly downward/leftward, causing the palm to face downward.
The sign for "D" in American Sign Language is made by forming the letter "D" with the right hand. The back of the right hand is placed under the chin, with fingers pointing leftward, and then the hand is pulled firmly to the right.
Drum played with drumsticks—'closed a-index' hands are held apart with palms facing the body and are alternately raised and lowered from the wrists as if drumming on a snare drum.
The sign for "right" in American Sign Language involves forming the letter 'c' and is held in a horizontal position near the mouth with the palm facing left. The hand is then tipped upward slightly.
Five hands are held parallel with palms up at about face level with arms extended away from the body. The hands then move simultaneously toward the body as if opening a drawer. The motion is repeated.
Sometimes this movement takes a clockwise path in a horizontal plane in front of the.
The sign 'SPREAD EXTENDED C' is held near the head with the palm toward the face and is moved in clockwise (from the onlooker's perspective) circles as the head lolls and the eyes are rolled slightly.
B (or bent extended B') hands are placed at either side of the head with palms forward and fingers simultaneously moving up and down to represent flapping ears.
F palm facing right, left palm extended and is held in front of right extended hand of which the palm faces left. The right hand is then drawn downward along the length of the left thumb. Each o
The sign for "translate" is produced by first signing "move" with both "t" hands in front of you. Then, using both hands in an "open B" handshape, sign "change" by moving your hands forward and apart.
The LEFT 'U' hand is held palm down with extended fingers pointing forward/rightward. The RIGHT 'U' or 'crooked U' hand is held palm down just above the left hand and at right angles to it. The extended fingers of the right hand are then tapped a couple of times on those of the left.
The sign for "o" in American Sign Language is produced by first forming the left 'u' handshape, which is held in a fixed position with palm down and extended fingers pointing rightward/forward. Beside it is the right 'u' handshape, which is held with palm facing left and extended fingers pointing forward (leftward). The right wrist then rotates to turn the hand palm down as the extended fingers come to rest on those of the left hand at right angles to them. Put one over o.
Vertical right 'C' hand with the palm facing left is positioned in front of the nose and is curved downward and forward.
The right combined hand is held palm down with extended fingers pointing forward/leftward. The forearm then moves upward at a forward/rightward angle, the palm of the hand eventually facing upward/rightward.
CHOICE VARIES CONSIDERABLY DEPENDING ON THE SIZE AND SHAPE OF THE OBJECT AND THE MANNER IN WHICH IT IS ASCENDING.
The sign for "right" (or "crooked extended B") hand palm down is placed at the left shoulder. As the right wrist then rotates in a clockwise direction, an arc is formed as the hand moves forward and downward coming to rest on the left bicep with palm upward at a slight backward angle.
The sign for "practice" in American Sign Language is made by holding the dominant hand flat with fingers extended and palm facing down. The non-dominant hand is held flat with palm facing up. The dominant hand is then moved back and forth over the non-dominant hand, indicating the act of practicing or training a specific skill.
Hands are held horizontally with palms facing each other and are alternately moved backward and forward a few times.
The right extended hand is held just in front of the right shoulder with palm left and fingers pointing forward or upward. The arm is then extended as the hand is thrust forward in a large arc formation ending up with the fingers pointing forward. (Express, in this context, may be fingerspelled.)
The tips of the joined thumbs and forefingers of vertical hands, palms facing each other at a forward angle, are placed together. The wrists then rotate outward causing the hands to move apart and turn so that the tips of the little fingers come together and the palms are facing the body.
Horizontal hands are held with palms facing the body and tips of fingertips very close, perhaps touching. The hands are then drawn apart.
Horizontal 'extended hands are held slightly apart with palms toward the body. The hands are then brought together so that the knuckles strike against each other a couple of times. Gang - garment.
Fingertips of the right bent extended 8 and palm toward the body are placed against the right shoulder while the left bent extended 8 hand palm toward the body is held a short distance in front of it. Then both hands are circled forward around one another several times.
Horizontal right 'C' (or 'extended C') hand palm toward the body is held in front of the neck. Then it is drawn upward/forward to indicate the length of a giraffe's neck.
The sign for "thumbtip" begins with the tip of the right thumb extended and the palm facing left is placed on the right cheek, then stroked forward and downward. The motion may be repeated.
The signing of the word "give" in American Sign Language involves extending the dominant hand in the direction of the recipient, with the palm facing upward. The hand is then moved towards the recipient in a slightly scooping motion, as if offering something to them. The movement should be smooth and deliberate, emphasizing the action of giving. The size and shape of the object being given may impact the specific hand shape used in the sign (NOTE: The hand shape may vary according to the size and shape of the object being given; however the basic movement remains the same.)
Crooked hands, palms facing each other, are held in a vertical position beside each eye. The forearms then move outward and inward slightly a few times so that the thumbtips tap against the cheeks. (Alternatively, the right hand only is frequently used.)
The right modified G hand palm facing left is held in a vertical position at the left side of the chin and the thumb and forefinger are opened and closed rapidly several times as the hand is drawn to the right.
The wrist of the right hand contracted in a 5 hand palm down is firmly grasped by the left hand, then the right hand is moved from side to side several times.
Horizontal modified G hands with palms facing each other are held close together and wobble slightly as they are then drawn apart.
Thumb of vertical right '5' and palm facing left is placed in the center of forehead. As the hand is then moved forward in two successive short arcs, it becomes horizontal with fingers pointing forward.
[Atlantic] The right '5' and slightly open palm facing left is brought down firmly from the chin as it closes. Next, the left 'extended B' is held in a fixed position with palm up and fingers pointing forward/rightward. The right 'M' or 'extended B' hand is held palm down with fingers pointing forward/leftward as they are tapped once or twice on the palm of the left hand. (ASL concept —old - mother.) Sign #3 [Ontario] The vertical right 'M' and palm facing leftward/forward is held near the lower right jaw, and the three uncovered fingers are moved up and down a few times as the fingertips brush downward against the lower right cheek.
Joined thumb and forefinger of vertical right 'F' or 'closed X' hand palm left are tapped a couple of times against the right side of the lips. Sign '1' right 'crooked it' and is held with the back against the mouth and is slithered forward to simulate the movement of a snake.
Horizontal right '3' and is held with palm left and thumbtip against the lower lip. The hand is then slithered forward to simulate the movement of a snake.
The sign for GREET is made by placing an open right hand against the forehead and bringing it outward and down. This sign is similar to a military salute. If more than one person is being greeted, the hands salute alternately several times.
sign, showing a slight squinting of the eyes and a pained expression to convey the meaning of "thinking hard" or "confused". The movement is fluid and gentle, reflecting the mental process of pondering or contemplating a difficult concept or problem. The sign is often used in academic or intellectual contexts to express the idea of deep concentration or uncertainty.
Horizontal left 'S' hand is held in a fixed position with palm facing rightward. Horizontal right 'S' hand is held above left hand with palm facing leftward but slanted slightly toward the body. The right forearm then moves in a counter-clockwise direction completing at least two revolutions.
In this context, VARIATIONs VARY ACCORDING TO THE SIZE AND SHAPE OF THE GRINDING APPARATUS, as well as the nature of the action required to operate it.
The signer's hands, palms facing the body, are held at chest level with the left slightly above the right. Then, the right hand is brought upward to strike the left. This sign is for "stand up."
The sign for '5' involves palms facing backward moving backward with fingers fluttering until they come to rest close to either side of the face.
Sides of thumb and forefinger of right hand (or side of forefinger of right hand) palm facing leftward/downward are firmly placed against the left side of the chest just below the shoulder. When referring to guilt as a 'feeling', the same basic
[ATLANTIC] The thumbtip of the right "crooked L" or crooked extended V hand is placed on the right cheek so that the palm faces forward/leftward at a downward angle. While the thumb maintains contact with the cheek, the wrist bends a few times as the hand appears to make forward rotations.
Ontario side of forefinger of vertical right 'X' and palm facing leftward is brushed downward/leftward against the chin at least twice.
Vertical 'crooked 5' hands are extended from the body and held parallel with palms facing but slanted forward slightly. They then move downward simultaneously in a waving motion as if actually frisking someone.
The sign "extended 8" is made with the right hand held palm-down, with fingers pointing forward/leftward as they are placed on the upturned palm of the left "extended 8", of which the fingers point slightly forward and to the right. The right hand is then flipped over so that the palm faces up.
Vertical right 'F' hand palm facing forward is shaken several times from the wrist. (In English, future may be either singular or plural. There is never an 's' added to this word.)
The sign for "game" is made by holding the right hand, palm facing left, in a vertical position near the right side of the head. The forearm is then moved forward a short distance so that the fingers eventually point forward/upward.
Horizontal left 'extended 8' and is held with fingers pointing rightward/forward and palm facing rightward but angled slightly toward the body as tip of forefinger of right one hand palm down strikes downward across left palm.
Bent one hand are held by the right cheek with palms facing each other and forefingers pointing toward one another. Then they are sharply stabbed toward each other at least twice. Toothbrush.
Bent hands are held slightly apart in front of the forehead with palms facing each other at a downward angle and forefingers pointing toward each other. The hands are then sharply stabbed toward each other at least twice. (The face winces in obvious pain and the teeth are visible as the)
Horizontal bent extended B hands are held apart with fingertips touching either side of upper chest. The hands are then simultaneously drawn forward slightly and downward in an arc formation re-establishing contact with the body at a somewhat lower level.
The tip of the forefinger of the right hand palm is tapped against the right ear.
Bent extended B hands are held up high with palms facing and are circled forwards so that the fingers of each hand revolve around those of the other hand. The hands are then drawn apart. (Movement for this...)
Side of forefinger of vertical right hand palm facing left is placed against right side of forehead. The forearm is then moved forward/rightward as the hand tips forward/rightward from the wrist so that the fingers point in the same direction as if the.
The sign for CHICKEN is a modified G-hand that is held at chin level with the palm facing forward, while the extended fingers are opened and closed at least twice to simulate the movement of a chicken's beak. The sign for HEN is frequently fingerspelled. Regional variations may exist for the sign CHICKEN.
The sign for "America" is produced by using your dominant hand to make the letter "A" in ASL alphabet. The "A" handshape is then moved in a circular motion over your heart. This sign represents the concept of the United States as a country or the idea of American nationality.
Extended hands are held parallel with palms up and are simultaneously circled outward.
atlantic: Vertical B hands touch as they are held left in front of right directly in front of the face, the left palm facing right and the right palm facing left as the head moves slightly rightward as if peeking out from behind the hands. Hide-and-seek.
Tip of the forefinger of the horizontal right '4' and palm facing downward is placed on the nose and the hand is curved rightward from the wrist away from the face. Ill at.
Modified O hands, which are held parallel with palms down, are simultaneously lowered and then raised as if dipping something into a liquid.
The sign for "Y" involves the right hand, with palm facing down, being tapped smartly on the upturned left palm.
Tip of the forefinger of the right hand is jabbed into the upper left arm and the thumb is repeatedly bent and extended as though depressing a plunger into a syringe.
Tips of extended fingers of 'U' and palms toward the body are placed at either side of the mouth and the hands are simultaneously thrust forward/downward so that palms face upward.
Vertical hands left palm facing right and right palm facing left are held apart so that the tips of little fingers are about level with the chin or mouth. The hands are then alternately moved straight back and forth.
BENT EXTENDED 8 HANDS ARE HELD APART WITH PALMS FACING EACH OTHER AND FINGERS OF EACH HAND POINTING TOWARD THOSE OF THE OTHER HAND. THE HANDS ARE THEN DRAWN CLOSER TOGETHER.
A right-bent extended B hand is held out in front of the body with fingers pointing leftward and palm facing the body but angled upward slightly. The hand is then drawn in toward the chest.
Vertical right hand palm facing the body is moved in a small counter-clockwise circle.
Fingertips of right spread extended hand palm down are used to scratch the back of the left forearm. (This
Horizontal left extended 8 hand is held in a fixed position with palm facing rightward/backward. Thumb and forefinger of right closed X hand move forward/rightward twice along the palm of the left hand.
Crooked hands are held apart with palms up and are alternately moved up and down to simulate the act of tossing and catching.
Horizontal "spread extended C" handshapes with palms toward the chest are held so that the fingers are meshed. Then the hands are simultaneously moved back and forth from the wrists without unhinging the fingers. (Handshapes may vary. Alternatively, hinge may be fingerspelled.)
Vertical right 'extended b' hand palm facing forward or rightward is held in front of the right shoulder and moved slightly in the direction of the person or animal being referred to.
The sign for "right" is formed by taking the right 's' hand, which is clenched with palm upward but slanted toward the body, and moving it in what appears from the.
Hands are held at right angles to one another as the downturned palm of the right extended "B" hand is smoothed rightward/forward across the upturned palm of the left extended "B" hand.
Fingertips of right modified O hand are placed against right cheek near the mouth and the hand is then moved back to a position on the cheek that is nearer the right ear.
The sign for "vertical right 'open a'" is held with palm toward the face and backs of fingers (up to the second joint) touching the right cheek. The hand is then brushed forward off the cheek a couple of times. "Hooray" (also spelled hurrah) is an exclamation indicating great pleasure. "Hooray!" shouted the fans when the winner was announced.
Hands are held palms down with forefingers pointing forward and thumbtips touching each other. The hands are then drawn apart. Alternate
Vertical left 'extended 8' hand is held in a fixed position with palm facing rightward and slightly forward. The right 'one' or 'K' hand is held palm down as it moves forward/downward at a slight leftward angle, the forefinger firmly grazing the left palm. Facial expression is important and the.
Vertical right A-index hand palm facing left quivers as thumb and forefinger are used to grasp skin of right cheek. (Leather is frequently fingerspelled.)
Sign is used to express the concept of "book" in American Sign Language. The movement of the raised right arm with the extended hand represents the action of opening a book. This sign is commonly used by deaf individuals to refer to reading or studying a book.
Hands palms toward the body are crossed at the wrists and are placed against the chest. Then they are pressed firmly against the body while the shoulders are hunched.
Thumbtip of right 'extended C' and palm down is positioned at the center of the forehead and the hand is brought downward to clasp left 'extended C' and of which the palm faces upward.
Horizontal right 'K' hand with palm facing left is held above horizontal left hand, which is held with palm facing right. Then right hand is brought purposefully down to strike left hand.
The vertical right 'K' hand palm forward is shaken from side to side slightly a couple of times.
Forefingers of one hand's palms down are held side by side and alternately moved back and forth so that the sides of the forefingers brush each other with each movement.
The sign for "work" in American Sign Language is produced by holding the right extended B hand with fingers pointing forward/leftward on the upturned palm of the left extended 8 hand, with fingers pointing slightly forward and to the right. The right hand is then flipped over so that the palm faces up.
Horizontal, the right 'U' hand with the palm facing left is held above and at right angles to the horizontal left 'U' hand, of which fingers are angled forward-rightward. The extended fingers of the right hand are then brushed forward-rightward twice off the end of the extended fingers of the left hand.
Forefingers of horizontal one and SPALMS facing each other are crossed with the right forefinger resting on the left. Then both hands are moved back and forth to simulate the action of a pair of knitting needles.
Two open hands with palms facing forward are tapped together a couple of times so that the thumb-tips touch.
Upright forefinger of right hand, palm facing forward, is used to trace a zigzag pattern from in front of the face downward to simulate a flash of lightning.
The sign for "right" in American Sign Language is made by holding the right hand with fingers extended and touching, palm facing left. The hand is then moved to the right side of the body and bent at the wrist, forming a loose hook shape.
Vertical right "crooked" extended palm facing forward is used to cup the right ear.
Vertical, right-hand palm facing left, is moved a short distance forward, downward, and back several times while the lips smack as if licking a lollipop.
5 hands are held slightly apart with palms downward but slanted toward the body and fingers of each hand pointing toward those of the other hand. The wrists then turn causing the hands to dovetail so that the fingers point directly forward the palms are down and the right hand is on top of the left. (This
Vertical right 'bent one' and is held with the tip of the forefinger touching the chin and palm facing leftward but slanted toward the body. The wrist then rotates, turning the hand so that the palm fully faces the body. "MAJOR" IS FREQUENTLY fingerspelled. Alternative.
The sign for "man" is made by forming the number '5' with the right hand, which is held with the palm facing leftward/downward, fingers pointing upward/leftward, and the tip of the thumb touching the middle of the forehead. The hand is then lowered so that the tip of the thumb comes to rest at about mid-chest. (For the sign meaning 'people in general' see MAN-KIND.)
Extended 'C' hands are held apart with palms facing and the right hand slightly above the left. The hands are then clasped together.
The sign is produced with both hands held apart, palms facing up, and fingers pointing forward. The hands are alternately raised and lowered at least twice in this motion.
A right-bent extended B hand is held out in front of the body with fingers pointing leftward and palm facing the body but angled upward slightly. The hand is then drawn toward the chest.
My hands are held parallel with palms down and tips of thumbs are tapped together at least twice. SAMF
The sign for "atlantic" is formed by extending the left "U" hand with extended fingers pointing forward or rightward and palm facing rightward or backward, while the extended fingers of the right "U" hand are positioned on and at right angles to the fingers of the left hand. Both hands then make small back and forth movements as though cutting meat.
Vertical 'flat O' hands are held just in front of either side of the forehead with palms facing backward and fingers rapidly fluttering as the hands move in small circles.
The right 'S' hand, palm facing left, is held in front of the mouth or chin while the lips move rapidly as if speaking.
Horizontal 'C' hands are held right above left with left palm facing right and right palm facing left. The right eye appears to squint as it looks down into the space created by the hands, which are twisted inward slightly from the wrists a couple of times to simulate the focusing of the lens.
Horizontal right '5' hand is squeezed and relaxed several times, thus alternating between a tight and more loosely held fist.
Do not worry; forget about it. Never mind; it is not important.
Fingers of horizontal 'bent extended hands and palms facing the chest are alternately brushed back and forth against each other.
The sign "EXTENDED 8" is made by forming an '8' shape with the index finger and thumb extended, with the palm facing towards the body. The hand is then brought to the middle of the chest.
The left hand is held palm-down with fingertips pointing right. The fingertips of the right palm-down extended 8 hand rest on and at right angles to the back of the left hand and are then moved upward from the wrist.
Vertical right extended BAND is held with palm toward the face and is rapidly twisted back and forth from the wrist several times.
The sign for "right" is made by forming the letter 'V' and is held with the palm facing leftward/forward and the tip of the forefinger touching the right side of the forehead. The hand then moves away from the forehead a short distance as the wrist twists so that the palm faces backward and the tip of the middle finger comes to rest on the right side of the forehead.
Horizontal hands are held slightly apart with palms down and are simultaneously circled slowly in opposite directions, the right hand appearing to the.
Vertical Left: One hand is held in a fixed position with palm forward. Horizontal Right: One hand, palm toward the body and forefinger pointing leftward, is positioned so that the first joint of the forefinger is held against the left forefinger and drawn downward along it.
Horizontal left hand is extended and held in a fixed position with palm facing right. Horizontal right hand is extended at a lower level with palm facing left. The right hand then moves upward causing the knuckles to brush against those of the left hand on its way up.
Horizontal 'S' hands with palms down are placed so that they appear to be holding onto the handlebars of a motorcycle. Then the right hand is moved up and down several times from the wrist as if accelerating. (See also VEHICLE for explanatory notes.)
The sign for "make eyes" is formed by placing the left 'V' hand with palm up and extended fingers pointing forward at a slight rightward angle. The right 'V' hand is held just above the left hand with the palm facing leftward at a downward/forward angle and extended fingers pointing leftward/upward at a slightly forward angle. The hands are brought together a few times so that the heels of the hands repeatedly collide.
The mouth is referred to a particular place on the mouth he/she might just point to that specific place. In addition, mouth is often incorporated in the
Horizontal "crooked S" hands are held with palms facing and fingertips touching. The hands are then simultaneously drawn apart.
The sign for MASTECTOMY may be formed with either the left or the right hand or both depending on which breast is being removed.
Little finger of right horizontal 'I' hand, palm facing the body and angled leftwards slightly, is used to strike downward against the little finger of left horizontal 'I' hand, with the palm facing the body at a rightward angle. Next, the back of fingers of the right bent extended 'B' hand are held against the fingers of the left 'bent extended B' hand, which is held horizontally with the palm facing the body. The right hand is then moved toward the body. Lastly, 'extended C' hands are held apart with palms facing, with the right hand slightly above the left. The hands are then clasped together. Alternatively, the ASL compound last-name-before-marry or simply name-before-marry may be used for a maiden name.
The right hand is extended with the palm toward the body and fingertips in front of the mouth is circled in what appears to be a circular motion.
Horizontal 'bent extended bands are held right in front of left with right palm facing leftward and left palm facing rightward. The right hand is then moved backward so that fingers of the right hand touch fingers of the left hand to indicate nearness. The motion may be repeated. (If you wish to indicate that something/someone is very near, see "just around the corner.")
Fingertips of right hand, vertical, bent, and point leftward and are held close to right side of forehead. The hand then wobbles slightly from the wrist.
Horizontal left 'bent extended B' hand is held in a fixed position with palm facing right and fingers pointing rightward. Horizontal right bent extended B hand is held with palm facing left and fingers positioned just in front of those of the left hand. Right hand then moves forward in a succession of small arcs. (The)
The right "BENT U" hand, palm down, is circled clockwise over the left standard base and the extended fingers are brought down to rest on it. Alternate
The tip of the forefinger of the right hand, bent, with palm facing the face, is placed near the corner of the right eye. The hand is twisted back and forth from the wrist.
Vertical right extended 8 hand is held just to the right and in front of the face with the palm facing backward. The forearm then swings sharply downward past the face so that the hand is eventually positioned in front of the chest with fingers pointing leftward.
Fingertips of left horizontal 'extended 8' make contact with crook of right elbow as right 'extended 8' is held out from the body with palm down and fingers pointing forward. The right forearm is then curved leftward as the wrist rotates to make the palm face the body.
sign can be made in almost possess-hook handshape and placed on the chest before moving it upward.
This sign may be made with two hands, one on either side of the chest, especially for emphasis. Facial expression is important.
Modified G hand is held with palm down and sides of thumb and forefinger against the left shoulder. Then the hand is moved diagonally downward so the hand comes to rest at the right side of the waist.
Hands are held at right angles to one another as the downturned palm of the right hand in an 'extended 8' shape is smoothed rightward/forward across the upturned palm of the left hand in an 'extended b' shape.
Fingertips of right hand are bent and point leftward, held close to lower right cheek. The hand then wobbles slightly from the wrist.
Right bent U hand is held upright at about shoulder level with palm facing left and is raised directly upward to a level near the top of the head. (While the positioning and movement of this sign may vary slightly depending on regional dialects, the general concept remains the same.)
Flat hands are held apart with palms down and are alternately circled forward.
Right arm is raised and the vertical extended B hand, palm facing left, is brought forward sharply from the wrist a couple of times. Same sign - to give a presentation. The Canadian Dictionary of ASL. Present - pressure.
Bent 4 hands are held in front of RIGHT with palms down and are lightly swept forward a couple of times.
A hands palms facing are held close to one another and moved alternately back and forth. This is a wrist movement.
Horizontal 'A' hands are held in front of the body, right hand over left hand, with the left palm facing right and the right palm facing left as if holding onto a rake handle. The hands are then simultaneously drawn toward the body a couple of times.
sign represents the concept of horizontal or level.)
Tends to be used when the limits of the 'range' are not specified. (A) range.
Horizontal 'K' or 'V' hands are held with the right hand resting on the left hand and extended fingers pointing forward. Together, the hands are circled forward a couple of times. Facial expression is important. Next, the tip of the forefinger of the right hand touches the forehead. (ASL concept - CAREFUL - THINK.)
The sign 'SPREAD C' with palm facing left and toward the body slightly is transformed into an 'S' with palm facing the body as it is brushed left twice along the fixed upturned palm of the left 'EXTENDED B' and finally raised above it. (In contexts where REAP means 'to harvest a crop')
Horizontal two-handed sign where hands are held aloft, with the right hand just above the left. The left palm is facing right while the right palm is facing left or backward. The right hand is then lowered several times, striking the left hand each time in a circular movement.
Thumbs and forefingers of both hands interlock and are moved from side to side slightly a few times.
Vertical right "one" is formed by extending the index finger and holding it towards the face, while the tip of the forefinger strokes backward a couple of times on the right side of the forehead just above the temple.
The right 'F' hand palm forward is shaken downward/leftward several times as if sprinkling pepper on food.
Tip of forefinger of right 'one' and touches first the left side of the neck then the right side. Handshapes for this sign are B-handshapes.
Hands are held parallel at about shoulder level with palms down and are simultaneously lowered. Alternatively, hands are held parallel with palms facing each other and fingers pointing forward and are simultaneously lowered.
Horizontal LeftExtended 'A' hand is held in a fixed position in front of the chest with palm toward the body. Right Extended 'A' hand is held palm down with thumbtip touching the center of the forehead. Then the right hand is lowered and the thumbtip placed on that of the left hand.
Horizontal 'F' (or covered 'R') hands. Left palm facing right and right palm facing left are held so that the left is further from the chest than the right. Then their positions are simultaneously switched as the left hand moves back toward the body in an arc over the right hand while the right hand moves away from the body in an arc under the left hand.
5 hands, left palm facing rightward/downward and right palm facing leftward/downward, are crossed at the wrists with the right hand nearer the body. Then they break apart so that they are held parallel with palms facing forward.
Extended 8 hands held parallel with palms facing one another and fingers pointing forward are simultaneously moved forward. (When the road is named, the name of the road is fingerspelled followed by the finger-spelled abbreviation RD.)
Right vertical 'spread C' hand palm facing the body is held near the mouth and is forcefully drawn forward at an upward angle.
Crooked forefingers of horizontal 'crooked v' and palms facing body are tapped together at least twice.
‘CROOKED 5’ hands palms down are held slightly apart and are simultaneously moved from side to side with the fingers wiggling to simulate the rapid depressing of piano keys.
The sign for "make a pig of oneself" is done by extending the right hand horizontally, with the palm facing left and angled across the upturned left palm twice to indicate the shape of a wedge. The hand is drawn towards the chest with each movement.
Right "BENT INDEX FINGER 5" hand is held upright with palm facing forward but slanted downward slightly. It is then moved forward with circular motions to simulate the stroking of an imaginary person with the middle finger. Appropriate facial expression is important (alternatively this).
Horizontal 'extended 8' and palms facing each other, with fingers pointing forward, are held slightly apart at the left side of the body and moved simultaneously toward the right.
Extended B hands, palms down, are positioned side by side and are simultaneously drawn apart. If the term is used in reference to a political or an election platform, other.
Vertical 8 (or extended B) hands, palms facing each other, are placed at either side of the head and then moved upward until the fingertips meet to form the shape of a bishop's mitre. (Pope is frequently fingerspelled. It is always fingerspelled if it precedes the name of a specific pope.)
The sign for "right" is made by forming the letter 'R' with the index and middle fingers of the dominant hand, palm forward. The hand is then held upright at the forehead and swept back across the top of the head.
A hands palms down are held slightly apart and are lowered and raised a couple of times as if knocking.
Crooked extended hands palms facing each other at a slight angle are cupped together to form the hull of a boat. Together the hands are moved forward.
Crooked slanted 5 hands palms facing upward but slanted toward each other slightly are held apart and are lightly circled outward a few times as if tossing a salad. (Salad may be fingerspelled.) SALAD
Horizontal 'V' hands, palms down, are held so the right is just above the left at right angles to it. Then the right hand is lowered so that the extended fingers are tapped down on those of the left a couple of times. (Salt is frequently fingerspelled.)
Horizontal 'U' hands, palms down, are held so the extended fingers of the right flutter as they rest on those of the left at right angles to them.
Extended hands are held slightly above the chest with fingers pointing forward and right palm facing down, while left palm faces upward. The hands are clapped lightly together as they move forward a little. The movement is repeated.
Vertical right 'flat C' hand palm backward is swung back and forth at least twice in front of the mouth.
Vertical right extended 8 hand with palm toward right shoulder becomes a bent extended B hand as it bends toward the shoulder. The motion may be repeated.
Vertical hands are held apart with palms facing forward. The hands are then brought purposefully together, alternating.
Horizontal Left '5' is held stationary with the palm rightward but angled slightly toward the body, with fingers pointing forward/rightward. Right 'D' with palm down and fingers pointing forward/leftward is used to tap several times on the thumbtip of the left hand.
The sign for "right" is made by forming a right-angled handshape with the fingers pointing upwards. The hand is then positioned near the mouth and moved forcefully forward at an upward angle.
An expression commonly used to indicate one's realization or comprehension of a fact or detail. That's why he left? Oh, I see.
Left hand extended B hand is held in a fixed position with fingers pointing forward and palm facing upward but angled slightly rightwards. Fingertips of horizontal right 'bent extended B' and palm down are used to strike palm of left hand. Right hand then moves forward in a small arc with fingertips coming to rest at the end of the left hand.
Rightbent extended 8 hand with palm facing forward/left is twisted slightly from the wrist so that it faces the right shoulder.
The sign for "sentence" in American Sign Language is made by forming the letter "S" with your dominant hand and swiping it across your non-dominant hand, palm facing up. This sign represents the term of punishment given to a convicted person in a court of law. For example, you can use this sign to talk about someone who was given a 25-year sentence for their crimes.
Horizontal extended 8 hands are held apart at about shoulder level with palms up and fingers pointing outward and are alternately moved from side to side.
Horizontal "S" hands are held to the left just in front of the right with palms down in front of the center of the chest. The hands are then simultaneously moved emphatically forward a short distance. Same.
Vertical 'clawed hands are held at either side of the head and simultaneously moved back and forth to simulate the act of shampooing one's hair.
Selection is simply based on the actual shape of the object being discussed and the forefingers are generally used in the formation of the.
The tips of the forefinger and thumb of the right index hand are brushed downward/forward at least twice against the end of the forefinger of the left hand, which is held with palm facing right and finger pointing forward/upward.
The sign for "shirt" is made by placing the dominant hand's fingertips on the center of the signer's shirt below the right shoulder between the thumb and forefinger and is moved back and forth twice.
Horizontal 'crooked 5' hands are held with palms facing the body and fingertips touching either side of the upper chest. Then the hands are simultaneously moved down towards waist level.
The hands palms down are held very near each other and are tapped together a couple of times.
Hands are held apart, the left palm facing upward and the right palm facing downward. The wrists then bend so that the left palm faces backward and the right palm faces forward/leftward. The motion is repeated.
Extended hands, palms facing each other, are rotated alternately in small circles which are brought down against the chest. Show o.
Sign for a snake is to extend and wiggle your index and middle fingers together, while keeping your other fingers and thumb tucked into your palm. This represents the slithering motion that snakes make.
Bent midfinger 5 hands are then positioned so that the tip of the right middle finger is in the middle of the forehead and the tip of the left middle finger is on the stomach. Next V hands are held left in front of right in a semi-vertical position with extended fingers pointing forward/upward at a slight leftward angle as left palm faces right and right palm faces left. As the head turns to the right, the hands are simultaneously jerked backward/rightward to an entirely upright position and the extended fingers retract to form 'clenched V' hands. (This part of the
One hand's palms more or less facing each other and forefingers touching (or almost touching) on either side of forehead are raised so that fingers point upward and palms face away from the body. Next, the right extended 8' and palm facing left is held in a vertical position near the right side of the head. The forearm is then moved forward a short distance so that the fingers eventually point forward/upward. (ASL concept—success - will) The sample sentence in ASL.
is used to refer specifically to one's marital status and cannot be used to mean 'just one person' in general. He wanted to know if she was married or single.
Vertical right 'S' or 'QNE' hand palm left is placed first on the left side of the chin and then on the right side.
Would not be appropriate for SINGLE when used as an adjective to describe the size of a bed. The sign for SINGLE is produced with both hands in an open B-handshape with the index fingers pointing up. Starting with the dominant hand extended slightly away from the body, move both hands toward each other, crossing the index fingers in front of the body.
Horizontal 'X' hands are held apart with palms up and are alternately drawn back and forth, the left hand moving backward/rightward while the right hand moves forward/rightward. Then the left hand moves forward/leftward while the right hand moves backward/leftward. Same.
The sign for "sleepy" is done by placing the fingertips of the dominant hand on the opposite shoulder, near the neck, and then moving the hand downward as if sliding into sleep.
Clawed v hands, palms facing upward/backward, are held slightly apart and are simultaneously curved downward and toward the chest.
Horizontal hands bent at the wrists with palms down are positioned so the left is slightly ahead of the right. Then both hands are simultaneously shoved downward at a forward angle with a very firm movement.
Varies according to whether the slide consists of rocks, mud, earth, etc.
is used to MEAN tiny or unusually small. There are many new small fish in the aquarium now.
The signer's lips appear to be articulating the syllable 'mo'. Alternatively, a modified G hand is used with the gap between the thumb and forefinger indicating just how small a thing is.
Vertical right 'one' hand palm facing leftward/forward is positioned with the tip of the forefinger on the forehead and the hand is firmly thrust forward from the wrist so that the forefinger points forward.
Horizontal right bent. One hand is held with palm facing left and forefinger under the nose while the mouth is slightly open and the head tilted back a little. The head then abruptly falls forward as the mouth closes thus simulating a sneeze.
Hands palms toward the chest are held so the tips of the little fingers are touching each other. Then they are moved apart in a series of short arcs.
Horizontal left: One hand is held in a fixed position with palm facing right and forefinger pointing forward. The right 'one' hand, palm facing leftward/backward, moves forward with the tip of the forefinger sliding along the forefinger of the left one hand. (Agent ending (see p. uv) may follow.)
The sign "right 'bent hand" has the palm facing forward and is positioned near the right shoulder with extended fingers pointing forward. The hand is circled forward several times.
Horizontal "Y" hands are held apart with palms facing chest and are twisted smoothly from the wrists so that the palms face downward/forward. Sometimes only the right hand is used for this part of the sign.
The sign for "stomach" is made by extending the right "8" hand, with fingertips pointing leftward and slightly downward, palm toward the body, then patting the stomach a couple of times.
Horizontal right palm facing downward, extend a hand towards the chest, then move it up and down slightly while firmly pressing the thumb several times.
Horizontal 'C' hands, palms facing, are held so that the fingertips of one hand are touching those of the other. Together, the hands are shaken back and forth a few times as if strangling someone. Facial expression is important and the teeth are visible as if the person is grimacing.
Horizontal 'I' hands are held with tips of little fingers touching each other and palms facing the body. The hands are then drawn apart. The movement is repeated.
Joined thumb and forefinger of the right hand, palm down, are inserted into the opening of the horizontal left 'F' and of which the palm is facing right. The hands remain in this position while the right hand jiggles.
Fingertips of 'bent extended 8' and palms facing the body are brushed upward against the chest. (Teenager may be finger-spelled.)
The sign for 'X' is made by extending the index fingers of both hands and crossing them to form an 'X' shape. The crossed fingers are then held in front of the chest and moved slightly outward in a small twisting motion.
The sign for "contracted 8" is made with the right hand, palm down and fingers pointing down, held in front of the left side of the chest. It is then swung forward/upward from the wrist and moved to a position in front of the right side of the chest, swung forward/upward again as if striking a ping-pong ball with a paddle.
Fingertips of right bent extended hand are placed on the lips so that the palm is toward the body. Then the hand is moved purposefully forward a brief distance.
EXTENDED HANDS, PALMS FACING EACH OTHER, ARE ROTATED ALTERNATELY IN SMALL CIRCLES WHICH ARE BROUGHT DOWN AGAINST THE CHEST.
The sign for "these" is made by forming the letter "X" with both hands, with palms facing downwards, and then moving both hands forward at the same time. This sign can be used to indicate specific people, places, or things. (See pronouns p. lxvii.) These are your birthday presents.
Horizontal right is signed by holding the right hand out, palm facing leftward or forward, with the forefinger pointing forward or rightward. The hand is then swept rightward in an arc so that the palm faces more forward and the forefinger points more to the right.
The sign for "concert" is made by forming a letter 'C' and is held in a horizontal position near the mouth with palm facing left. The hand is then tipped upward slightly. The tip of the middle finger of the right bent midfinger hand, palm toward the body, is brushed upward and off the chest. Finally, the right bent extended B hand, fingers on lips and pointing leftward, palm backward, is drawn rightward as the fingers bend to form an 'extended A' with the thumb pointing upward. (ASL: concert - drink - feel - better).
Horizontal hands palms facing each other are placed together and circled clockwise a couple of times.
The sign described is the sign for "right" in American Sign Language. It is made by forming the right hand into an "L" shape with the index finger pointing forward. The hand is held palm down and is thrust forward under the left hand, which is in the standard base position.
5 (or clawed V) hands, palms facing chest, are crossed at the wrists with the right hand nearest the body. The back of the right wrist is tapped twice against the left wrist. Same.
Horizontal right extended hand, palm facing left, is held directly behind horizontal left extended hand whose palm faces right. The right hand then becomes vertical as it is brought back smartly toward the chest.
The sign for "c" involves holding both hands upright with palms facing each other and the tips of thumbs touching either side of the face at the cheekbones. A wide-eyed look accompanies this sign.
Three hands held slightly apart with the palms down are alternately raised and lowered.
Wrist is bent backward slightly as heel of right clawed 5 hand is used to strike right side of forehead a couple of times.
With the right hand in an 'extended c' shape and in a more or less vertical position with palm facing left but slanted downward slightly, the thumb is held against the left lower jaw just to the left of the mouth. The hand then moves rightward so that the thumb comes to rest just to the right of the mouth. (Cafeteria is frequently finger-spelled.) Tab
Vertical left extended 8' and is held in a fixed position with palm toward the body at a rightward angle. Bunched fingertips of vertical right 'o' and are placed on the left palm. Right hand opens to form an 'extended 8' and then comes together purposefully with the left palm.
